deep in the jungles of vietnam
soldiers from both sides battled heat
exhaustion and each other for nearly 20
long years
but the key to communist victory wasn't
weapons or stamina it was a dirt road
the ho chi minh trail winding through
vietnam laos and cambodia started as a
simple network of dirt roads
and blossomed into the centerpiece of
the winning north vietnamese strategy
during the vietnam war supplying weapons
troops
and psychological support to the south
the trail was a network of tracks
dirt roads and river crossings that
threaded west out of north vietnam
and south along the trueng sun mountain
range between vietnam and laos
the journey to the south originally took
six months but with engineering and
ingenuity the vietnamese expanded and
improved
the trail towards the end of the war as
the main routes detoured through laos
it only took one week here is how it
happened
in 1959 as relations deteriorated
between the north and the south
a system of trails was constructed in
order to infiltrate soldiers
weapons and supplies into south vietnam
the first troops moved in single file
along routes used by local ethnic groups
and broken tree branches at dusty
crossroads were often all that indicated
the direction
initially most of the communist cadres
who came down the trail were southerners
by birth who were trained in north
vietnam
they dressed like civilian peasants in
black silk pajamas with a checkered
scarf
they wore ho chi minh sandals on their
feet cut from truck tires
and carried their ration of cooked rice
in elephants intestines
a linen tube hung around the body the
conditions were harsh
and many deaths were caused by exposure
malaria
and amoebic dysentery getting lost
starving to death
and the possibility of attacks by wild
tigers or bears were constant threats
meals were invariably just rice and salt
and it was easy to run out
fear boredom and homesickness were the
dominant emotions
and soldiers occupied their spare time
by writing letters
drawing sketches and drinking and
smoking with local villagers
the first troops down the trail did not
engage in much fighting
and after an exhausting six-month trip
arriving in the south was a real
highlight
often celebrated by bursting into seoul
by 1965
the trip down the trail could be made by
truck thousands of trucks supplied by
china and russia
took up the task amidst ferocious b-52
bombing
and truck drivers became known as pilots
of the ground as the traffic down the
trail increased
so did the us bombing they drove at
night or in the early morning to avoid
airstrikes
and watchmen were ready to warn drivers
of enemy aircraft
villagers along the trail organised
teams to guarantee traffic flow
and to help drivers repair damage caused
by air attacks
their catch cries were everything for
our southern brothers
and we will not worry about our houses
if the vehicles have not yet gotten
through
some families donated their doors and
wooden beds to repair roads
vietnamese forces even used deception to
get u.s aircraft to bomb mountainsides
in order to make gravel for use in
building and maintaining roads
the all-pervading red dust seeped into
every nook and cranny
the ho chi minh trail had a profound
impact on the vietnam war and it was the
key to hanoi's success
north vietnamese victory was not
determined by the battlefields but by
the trail
which was the political strategic and
economic linchpin
americans recognized its achievement
calling the trail one of the great
achievements of military engineering of
the 20th century the trail is a
testimony to the strength of will of the
vietnamese people and the men and women
who use the trail have become folk
heroes
you